h1. RHEL Image Promotion Pipeline (SIT → UAT → Preprod → Prod)

This CI/CD workflow uses Jenkins and Jira to promote container images across environments with approval gates and full traceability.

h2. Pipeline Flowchart

{code}
[Jenkins: Deploy-to-SIT]
        |
        V
[Jira: Ticket created - "SIT Ready"]
        |
     [Manual]
        V
[Jira: Status changed to "UAT Ready"]
        |
     [Trigger]
        V
[Jenkins: Promote-to-UAT]
        |
        V
[Jira: Comment + Status "In UAT"]
        |
     [Manual]
        V
[Jira: Status → "Preprod Ready"]
        |
     [Trigger]
        V
[Jenkins: Promote-to-Preprod]
        |
        V
[Jira: Comment + Status "In Preprod"]
        |
     [Manual]
        V
[Jira: Status → "Prod Ready"]
        |
     [Trigger]
        V
[Jenkins: Promote-to-Prod]
        |
        V
[Jira: Comment + Status "In Prod"]
{code}

h2. images.txt (Git-tracked)

{code}
SIT=image:v1.2.3
UAT=image:v1.2.2
PREPROD=image:v1.1.0
PROD=image:v1.0.9
{code}

h2. Promotion Workflow Per Environment

* *Preconditions*:
** Jira ticket exists with status (e.g. *UAT Ready*)
** Jenkins job performs Jira status check

* *Jenkins Job* (e.g., *Promote-to-UAT*):
** Reads image version from `images.txt`
** Validates Jira status with `check_jira_status.sh`
** Runs `promote_to_env.sh`
** Updates and commits changes to `images.txt`
** Tags Git commit (e.g., *promote-v1.2.3-to-UAT*)
** Updates Jira using `update_jira.sh` and adds comment

h2. Scripts Used

|| Script || Purpose ||
| promote_to_env.sh | Deploys image to the target environment |
| create_jira_ticket.sh | Optionally creates a Jira ticket |
| update_jira.sh | Updates Jira status and comments |
| check_jira_status.sh | Validates the current Jira status |

h2. Sample Jenkins Shell Script

{code:bash}
# Validate Jira status
./check_jira_status.sh "$JIRA_KEY" "UAT Ready" || exit 1

# Promote image
./promote_to_env.sh "UAT" "$IMAGE_VERSION"

# Update image tracking
sed -i "s/^UAT=.*/UAT=$IMAGE_VERSION/" images.txt
git commit -am "Promoted $IMAGE_VERSION to UAT"
git tag -a "promote-$IMAGE_VERSION-to-UAT" -m "Promotion to UAT"
git push origin main --tags

# Update Jira
./update_jira.sh "$JIRA_KEY" "In UAT"
{code}

h2. Best Practices

* *Version Control*: Tag each promotion for audit purposes
* *Manual Gates*: Jira statuses act as controlled checkpoints
* *Traceability*: Git history + Jenkins logs + Jira activity
* *Rollback Ready*: Restore from older `images.txt` commits
* *Notifications*: Optional Slack/email hooks per promotion